# Snooty Preview

Snooty can support rendering a single page without the use of `Gatsby.js` by utilizing `webpack` directly. Preview mode relies on the following files:

- `webpack.config.js`: Webpack configuration files.
- `preview-setup-cli.js`: Contains setup functions similar to those found in `gatsby-node.js`. Prepares the page AST and metadata for the preview through the use of Stitch.
- `preview-setup-vscode.js`: Similar to `preview-setup-cli.js` but relies on files generated by the Snooty extension to prepare the page AST.
- `preview-start.js`: Entry point for preview mode.
- `index.html`: HTML template file to be used by `preview-start.js`.

The following files are additional files that serve as workarounds for `gatsby`:

- `noop.js`
- `preview/get-include-file.js`

## Command Line

### Usage

To use local preview, `.env.development` must be [set up](https://github.com/mongodb/snooty/tree/master#envdevelopment) with the same information that would be used when running `gatsby develop`.

**On your command line:**
```
npm run preview -- --env.PREVIEW_PAGE="<page-name-here>"
```

#### Examples

To get to the landing page of a site:
```
npm run preview -- --env.PREVIEW_PAGE="index"
```

To get to https://docs.mongodb.com/guides/server/drivers/ :
```
npm run preview -- --env.PREVIEW_PAGE="server/drivers"
```

## VS Code Extension

### Usage

Note: This assumes that the Snooty Frontend has already been added as a submodule in [Snooty VS Code](https://github.com/mongodb/snooty-vscode).

Snooty Preview exists as a command that can be run through the Snooty VS Code extension.

To run on VS Code:

1. Go to a `.txt` file that corresponds to its own page.
2. `cmd + shift + p` to open up a list of possible commands.
3. Run `Snooty Preview` to open a webview panel to preview the page for the current `.txt` file.

### Key Processes

`Snooty Preview` can be broken down into three key processes:

1. **Obtaining the page AST.**
   The current page's AST is obtained from the [Snooty Parser's](https://github.com/mongodb/snooty-parser) RPC method [`textDocument/get_page_ast`](https://github.com/mongodb/snooty-parser/blob/DOCSP-6544/RPC-methods.md#textdocumentget_page_ast). The page AST is saved as `page-ast.json` within the Snooty frontend submodule's `preview` directory.
2. **Generating `bundle.js`.**
   The Snooty extension runs a task to initiate webpack within the Snooty frontend submodule. This creates a bundle file that is stored within the submodule's `preview` directory.
3. **Starting the webview panel.**
   The Snooty extension handles previewing the single page by starting a webview panel within VS Code. The `bundle.js` is used as a script within the webview's html.
