README.md, before:

# MongoDB Documentation Front-End

Uses [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/) to build static site.

## Installation

Snooty uses [artifactory](https://jfrog.com/artifactory/) that [will need authentication](https://github.com/mongodb/snooty/blob/main/.npmrc) to install some private npm packages. Update your local zsh variables in `$~/.zshrc` (in Windows `%USERPROFILE%/.zshrc`) to include the following

```
export NPM_BASE_64_AUTH=<BASE_64_API_KEY>
export NPM_EMAIL=<your.email@gmail.com>
```

Then, to install the package dependencies:

```shell
npm install --legacy-peer-deps
```

### .env file setup

You'll need to set some environment variables in two separate files at the root of this directory for separate production/development environments. These variables let Snooty know where to look for your AST zip files, within DOP team's database. (You can also use [local AST files](#running-with-local-manifest-path).)

#### `.env.development`

Snooty's `develop` stage uses the `development` environment. Your `.env.development` file should be as follows:

```
GATSBY_SITE=<SITE>
GATSBY_PARSER_USER=<USER>
GATSBY_PARSER_BRANCH=<BRANCH>
GATSBY_SNOOTY_DEV=true
```

The `GATSBY_SNOOTY_DEV` variable is what allows Gatsby to know that it should use the snooty branch name as part of the file paths. When not set, the file paths will use the value of `GATSBY_PARSER_BRANCH`. See pathing [here](https://github.com/mongodb/snooty/blob/main/src/utils/generate-path-prefix.js#L22)

It should be set to `true` when working on snooty locally.

#### `.env.production`

Snooty's `build` and `serve` stages use the `production` environment. Your `.env.production` file should be as follows:

```
GATSBY_SITE=<SITE>
GATSBY_PARSER_USER=<USER>
GATSBY_PARSER_BRANCH=<BRANCH>
GATSBY_SNOOTY_DEV=true
```

## Running locally

```shell
npm run develop
```

To build and serve the site, run the following commands:
The serve command generates the site at a [prefix](https://github.com/mongodb/snooty/blob/main/src/utils/generate-path-prefix.js) ie. `localhost:9000/<branch>/<docs-name>/<user>/<branch-name>/`

```shell
$ npm run build
$ npm run serve
```

To debug server side:

```shell
node --nolazy node_modules/.bin/gatsby develop --inspect-brk
```

and connect a node debugger (ie. [chrome developer tools](https://nodejs.org/en/docs/guides/debugging-getting-started/#inspector-clients))

### Running with local manifest path

Alternative to working with remote AST files, you can have a local zip file to build the site. This removes the need for previously mentioned env variables required for remote lookup `GATSBY_SITE` `GATSBY_PARSER_USER` and `GATSBY_PARSER_BRANCH`. Local zip file is an output of the [parser](https://github.com/mongodb/snooty-parser)

`.env.development` and `.env.production`:

```
GATSBY_MANIFEST_PATH=/path/to/zipped/ast/file.zip
GATSBY_SNOOTY_DEV=true
```

## Staging

Install libxml2 with `brew install libxml2` on mac and `apt-get install libxml2` on linux

Install [mut](https://github.com/mongodb/mut) and ensure that you have properly configured your Giza/AWS keys as [defined here](https://github.com/mongodb/mut/blob/3df98c17b0c5ea0b6101fe2c0e1b36ebdf97412e/mut/AuthenticationInfo.py#L7). Then, from root, run:

```shell
npm run build:clean:stage
```

:warning: Note: This will promote the contents of your local public directory. Your instance in staging may break or be outdated if you haven't run `npm run build` before `make stage`.

## Staging with Netlify

When a commit is pushed, this automatically triggers a Netlify build on your branch. For every push, a deploy and deploy preview will be generated.

By default, the master branch of `docs-landing` will be parsed with the parser version specified in the `Netlify.toml` and built using your branch as the frontend. If you'd like to build a different site or branch or build with a different parser version, this can be easily done by just updating the values in the Netlify.toml accordingly. Don't forget to update the `ORG_NAME` to `mongodb` or `10gen` depending on which org your repo belongs to!

## Releasing

We have configured an automatic release process using [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions) that is triggered by [npm-version](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/version). To release a version, you must have admin privileges in this repo.

:warning: This process cannot be completed if the releaser's `origin` points to a fork.

:warning: Please **do not** create new git tags directly through the GH UI or CLI. Doing so may result in a merge conflict or git tag error when
performing the following instructions.

Then proceed as follows:

1. On the `main` branch, run `git pull` followed by `npm ci`.
2. Run `npm version [major | minor | patch]`, using [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org) guidelines to correctly increment the version number. Keep the minor version consistent with [snooty-parser versioning](https://github.com/mongodb/snooty-parser/tags). GitHub Actions will create a new git tag and push it to GitHub.
3. Update the release draft found [here](https://github.com/mongodb/snooty/releases) using the automatically generated [CHANGELOG.md](https://github.com/mongodb/snooty/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md) and publish the release. Keep "pre-release" checked until version 1.0.0.

## Testing

Tests can be run using:

```shell
npm test  # alias for npm run test
```

### Unit tests

Unit tests are located in the `tests/unit/` directory. To run only unit tests, use:

```shell
npm run test:unit
```

### Running individual suites

Jest includes configurations for running individual test suites:

```shell
npm test -- my-test   # or
npm test -- path/to/my-test.js
```

For more information, see the [Jest CLI Options](https://jestjs.io/docs/en/cli) documentation, or run `npm test -- --help`.

### Updating test snapshots

Snapshots may require updates when making changes to snooty components

```shell
npm test -- -u
```

## Linting & Style

We use [ESLint](https://eslint.org) and [Prettier](https://prettier.io) to help with linting and style.

### Lint

Our CI (via [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions)) is configured to test for lint errors. To run this test locally and attempt to automatically fix errors:

```shell
npm run lint:fix
```

These errors must be fixed for the CI build to pass.

### Style

To format code using Prettier, run the following command:

```shell
npm run format:fix
```

We have set up a precommit hook that will format staged files. Prettier also offers a variety of editor integrations to automatically format your code.

## Component Factory Filter

The component factory filter process uses [SWC](https://swc.rs/) to remove unused components from the `ComponentFactory.js` file. A custom plugin is used to perform this transformation, and it lives in the `component-factory-transformer` directory. This plugin is run when the `npm run build` command is executed.

To use the custom plugin, you'll first need to install [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install).

Once Rust is installed, you'll need to build the plugin. Change directory to `component-factory-transformer`, run `cargo build && rustup target add wasm32-wasip1` if you haven't, and then run `npm run prepublishOnly`.

The `USE_FILTER_BRANCH` environment variable needs to be added in the `.env.production` file and set to `true` for this to work.

NOTE: This will modify the `ComponentFactory.js` file directly. To undo this, you can run `git restore src/components/ComponentFactory.js` to get the file back to its original state.

To perform a dry run i.e. the `ComponentFactory.js` file does not get updated, the `FILTER_DRY_RUN` property can be provided and set to `true`. This will log the resulting code that would have been written to the file only.

## Unified TOC (L1 and L2s)

### Requirements

The Unified TOC requires the `GATSBY_USE_UNIFIED_TOC` feature flag to be enabled. This feature flag is temporary and will be removed once the Unified TOC is officially launched. Without this flag enabled, the legacy TOC will be displayed instead.

Additionally, the `GATSBY_UNIFIED_TOC_DEV_MODE` environment variable needs to be set to handle active link styling on 404 pages (pages that are not included in the build) within the Unified TOC navigation. Without this environment variable, active styling will not be applied correctly on 404 pages.

`GATSBY_USE_UNIFIED_TOC` can be added to your `.env.development` and both can be added to your `.env.production` file.

### Local, Preview Builds

The `GATSBY_UNIFIED_TOC_DEV_MODE` environment variable is required for handling 404 pages correctly in non-development environments. This includes:

- Local production builds (using `npm run build` and `npm run serve`)
- Preview builds

This environment variable forces all links in the Unified TOC to be client-side links, which enables the custom 404 page to render while preserving the Unified TOC and show the correct active state in the navigation.

For preview builds, writers need to ensure this environment variable is added to their Netlify configuration.

Note: The custom 404 page is only visible in non-development builds. In development mode (`npm run develop`), Gatsby serves its own default 404 page.

### Useful Resources

[React](https://reactjs.org/docs/getting-started.html)
[Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/)
[Emotion](https://emotion.sh/docs/introduction)
[mongodb/Realm](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/realm-sdks/js/latest/)
[LeafyGreen UI](https://www.mongodb.design/)

Commit message:

DOP-5922: Allowing unified toc to work on preview builds (#1487)

README.md, after:

# MongoDB Documentation Front-End

Uses [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/) to build static site.

## Installation

Snooty uses [artifactory](https://jfrog.com/artifactory/) that [will need authentication](https://github.com/mongodb/snooty/blob/main/.npmrc) to install some private npm packages. Update your local zsh variables in `$~/.zshrc` (in Windows `%USERPROFILE%/.zshrc`) to include the following

```
export NPM_BASE_64_AUTH=<BASE_64_API_KEY>
export NPM_EMAIL=<your.email@gmail.com>
```

Then, to install the package dependencies:

```shell
npm install --legacy-peer-deps
```

### .env file setup

You'll need to set some environment variables in two separate files at the root of this directory for separate production/development environments. These variables let Snooty know where to look for your AST zip files, within DOP team's database. (You can also use [local AST files](#running-with-local-manifest-path).)

#### `.env.development`

Snooty's `develop` stage uses the `development` environment. Your `.env.development` file should be as follows:

```
GATSBY_SITE=<SITE>
GATSBY_PARSER_USER=<USER>
GATSBY_PARSER_BRANCH=<BRANCH>
GATSBY_SNOOTY_DEV=true
```

The `GATSBY_SNOOTY_DEV` variable is what allows Gatsby to know that it should use the snooty branch name as part of the file paths. When not set, the file paths will use the value of `GATSBY_PARSER_BRANCH`. See pathing [here](https://github.com/mongodb/snooty/blob/main/src/utils/generate-path-prefix.js#L22)

It should be set to `true` when working on snooty locally.

#### `.env.production`

Snooty's `build` and `serve` stages use the `production` environment. Your `.env.production` file should be as follows:

```
GATSBY_SITE=<SITE>
GATSBY_PARSER_USER=<USER>
GATSBY_PARSER_BRANCH=<BRANCH>
GATSBY_SNOOTY_DEV=true
```

## Running locally

```shell
npm run develop
```

To build and serve the site, run the following commands:
The serve command generates the site at a [prefix](https://github.com/mongodb/snooty/blob/main/src/utils/generate-path-prefix.js) ie. `localhost:9000/<branch>/<docs-name>/<user>/<branch-name>/`

```shell
$ npm run build
$ npm run serve
```

To debug server side:

```shell
node --nolazy node_modules/.bin/gatsby develop --inspect-brk
```

and connect a node debugger (ie. [chrome developer tools](https://nodejs.org/en/docs/guides/debugging-getting-started/#inspector-clients))

### Running with local manifest path

Alternative to working with remote AST files, you can have a local zip file to build the site. This removes the need for previously mentioned env variables required for remote lookup `GATSBY_SITE` `GATSBY_PARSER_USER` and `GATSBY_PARSER_BRANCH`. Local zip file is an output of the [parser](https://github.com/mongodb/snooty-parser)

`.env.development` and `.env.production`:

```
GATSBY_MANIFEST_PATH=/path/to/zipped/ast/file.zip
GATSBY_SNOOTY_DEV=true
```

## Staging

Install libxml2 with `brew install libxml2` on mac and `apt-get install libxml2` on linux

Install [mut](https://github.com/mongodb/mut) and ensure that you have properly configured your Giza/AWS keys as [defined here](https://github.com/mongodb/mut/blob/3df98c17b0c5ea0b6101fe2c0e1b36ebdf97412e/mut/AuthenticationInfo.py#L7). Then, from root, run:

```shell
npm run build:clean:stage
```

:warning: Note: This will promote the contents of your local public directory. Your instance in staging may break or be outdated if you haven't run `npm run build` before `make stage`.

## Staging with Netlify

When a commit is pushed, this automatically triggers a Netlify build on your branch. For every push, a deploy and deploy preview will be generated.

By default, the master branch of `docs-landing` will be parsed with the parser version specified in the `Netlify.toml` and built using your branch as the frontend. If you'd like to build a different site or branch or build with a different parser version, this can be easily done by just updating the values in the Netlify.toml accordingly. Don't forget to update the `ORG_NAME` to `mongodb` or `10gen` depending on which org your repo belongs to!

## Releasing

We have configured an automatic release process using [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions) that is triggered by [npm-version](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/version). To release a version, you must have admin privileges in this repo.

:warning: This process cannot be completed if the releaser's `origin` points to a fork.

:warning: Please **do not** create new git tags directly through the GH UI or CLI. Doing so may result in a merge conflict or git tag error when
performing the following instructions.

Then proceed as follows:

1. On the `main` branch, run `git pull` followed by `npm ci`.
2. Run `npm version [major | minor | patch]`, using [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org) guidelines to correctly increment the version number. Keep the minor version consistent with [snooty-parser versioning](https://github.com/mongodb/snooty-parser/tags). GitHub Actions will create a new git tag and push it to GitHub.
3. Update the release draft found [here](https://github.com/mongodb/snooty/releases) using the automatically generated [CHANGELOG.md](https://github.com/mongodb/snooty/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md) and publish the release. Keep "pre-release" checked until version 1.0.0.

## Testing

Tests can be run using:

```shell
npm test  # alias for npm run test
```

### Unit tests

Unit tests are located in the `tests/unit/` directory. To run only unit tests, use:

```shell
npm run test:unit
```

### Running individual suites

Jest includes configurations for running individual test suites:

```shell
npm test -- my-test   # or
npm test -- path/to/my-test.js
```

For more information, see the [Jest CLI Options](https://jestjs.io/docs/en/cli) documentation, or run `npm test -- --help`.

### Updating test snapshots

Snapshots may require updates when making changes to snooty components

```shell
npm test -- -u
```

## Linting & Style

We use [ESLint](https://eslint.org) and [Prettier](https://prettier.io) to help with linting and style.

### Lint

Our CI (via [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions)) is configured to test for lint errors. To run this test locally and attempt to automatically fix errors:

```shell
npm run lint:fix
```

These errors must be fixed for the CI build to pass.

### Style

To format code using Prettier, run the following command:

```shell
npm run format:fix
```

We have set up a precommit hook that will format staged files. Prettier also offers a variety of editor integrations to automatically format your code.

## Component Factory Filter

The component factory filter process uses [SWC](https://swc.rs/) to remove unused components from the `ComponentFactory.js` file. A custom plugin is used to perform this transformation, and it lives in the `component-factory-transformer` directory. This plugin is run when the `npm run build` command is executed.

To use the custom plugin, you'll first need to install [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install).

Once Rust is installed, you'll need to build the plugin. Change directory to `component-factory-transformer`, run `cargo build && rustup target add wasm32-wasip1` if you haven't, and then run `npm run prepublishOnly`.

The `USE_FILTER_BRANCH` environment variable needs to be added in the `.env.production` file and set to `true` for this to work.

NOTE: This will modify the `ComponentFactory.js` file directly. To undo this, you can run `git restore src/components/ComponentFactory.js` to get the file back to its original state.

To perform a dry run i.e. the `ComponentFactory.js` file does not get updated, the `FILTER_DRY_RUN` property can be provided and set to `true`. This will log the resulting code that would have been written to the file only.

## Unified TOC (L1 and L2s)

### Requirements

The Unified TOC requires the `GATSBY_USE_UNIFIED_TOC` feature flag to be enabled. This feature flag is temporary and will be removed once the Unified TOC is officially launched. Without this flag enabled, the legacy TOC will be displayed instead.

Additionally, the `GATSBY_UNIFIED_TOC_DEV_MODE` environment variable needs to be set to handle active link styling on 404 pages (pages that are not included in the build) within the Unified TOC navigation. Without this environment variable, active styling will not be applied correctly on 404 pages.

`GATSBY_USE_UNIFIED_TOC` can be added to your `.env.development` and both can be added to your `.env.production` file.

### Local, Preview Builds

The `GATSBY_UNIFIED_TOC_DEV_MODE` environment variable is required for being able to click through the Sidenav with staying on your current content site.

- Local production builds (using `npm run build` and `npm run serve`)
- Preview builds

This environment variable forces all `L1` and `showSubNav` links in the Unified TOC to not change pages and to only change the side navigation.

For preview builds, writers need to ensure this environment variable is added to their Netlify configuration.

### Useful Resources

[React](https://reactjs.org/docs/getting-started.html)
[Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/)
[Emotion](https://emotion.sh/docs/introduction)
[mongodb/Realm](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/realm-sdks/js/latest/)
[LeafyGreen UI](https://www.mongodb.design/)
